1. Why do we call Python as a general purpose and high-level programming language?
ans:- Python is versatile and can handle a wide range of task. It's not limited to a specific domain, 
      which makes it a General-pourpose language. You can use it for web-development, data analysis, 
      automtion, etc.
      For Instance:-->
      Python's vasitility allows it to handle a variety of tasks.
      1] You can use it to creat a website using frameworks like Django or Flask.
      2] For Statastical and scientific computing, using libraries like NumPy and SciPy.
      3] Can use to Automate repetitive Tasks using Python Scripts.

      Python is High_level because it abstracts away technical details.You don't need to worry about
      things like memory management, which makes coding easier. Its simple and readable syntax makes
      it high-level and user-friendly language amongs all.
      
      For Instance:--> When working with python, you don't have to manage Memory allocation like you would in
      Low-Level languages. If you want to read a file,you can simply use the "open" function , read the contents,
      and then Python takes care of relesing the memory when you're donr. Compair this to language like 'C',
      where you'd need to handle memory allocation and deallocation manually.
      Python's "high level" nature simlifies programming task and reduces the risk of memory related error.

Q2. Why is Python called a dynamically typed language?
ans:- Because the Data types of varibles are Determined and checked at runtime we do'nt need to declear the variable data type explicitly,
      interpretor detect it automalically ,so opposed to statically typed languages where Data types are checked at Compail-time.
      
Q3. List some pros and cons of Python programming language?
ans:- Pros:-            1. User Friendly and easy to undersand
			2. Avialibility across all Platform such as MACos,Windows,Linux			
	                3. large set of Library with open source forume support
			4. It can use in wide range of applications like automation,data analysis,web-development,ML etc.
			5. best for Data Analysis because of robust ecosystem of libraries like NumPy,pandas,scikit-learn,Tenser-Flow.

      Cons:-            1. Python is Slow when it come to execution in comparision of C,C++ .
			2. Limited support of Multithreading for developers to use multiprocessing. 
             	

Q4. In what all domains can we use Python?
ans:-   In Web-Development
	In Data Science and Data analysis
	In Automation and Scripting
	In Scientific Computation.
	In Game Development
	In technologies like AI,ML 	

Q5. What are variable and how can we declare them?
ans:-   Variables are used to Store and Manipulate Data.Variable likes name constarins can hold the data in various types like Text,Number,List etc.
	To declaer the varible we need to use assignment Operator "=". ex:- variable_name = value.  

Q6. How can we take an input from the user in Python?
ans:-	By using input() function. This input() function reads the line of text enter by the user and gives string value in output.
	ex:- user_input = input("Type Your Name Here")
	     	

Q7. What is the default datatype of the value that has been taken as an input using input() function?
ans:-   In python, input() function always give you 'str' data-type by default. Dispite inserting numbers or other data type in input() function it always teates like 
	it's 'str'. If you wants to  treat it as different data-type, you have to explicitily convert it to desire data-type using functions like 'int()';float().
				user_input = input("Enter the age here:")			#---> the vale in the input function is 'str' data--type.
				integer_value = int(user_input)					#---> this convers the user input to an integer.
			# Now you can perform numerical operation with integer_value


Q8. What is type casting?
ans:-   Type casting / Type Conversion is to convert one data-type to other data-type as desire.
	We can only type casting the datatype having "higher bit value" to the "lower bit value".

	In Pyhton there are several in-built functions for type-casting which helps to covert data-type of Variable or values.
	EX:-		
			x = 5.23
			y = int(x)			#---> 'y' converts to integere and gives 'y = 5' as integer value.
			
			a = 10
			b = float(a)			#---> 'b' converts to float value and gives 'b = 10.00000' as float.


Q9. Can we take more than one input from the user using single input() function? If yes, how? If no, why?
ans:-   The input() function in pyhton desinged as it can read single line input at a time. Input() function waits until user insert values.
	If you wants to take multiple inputs form the user in single line or single call, Can do it ih this way as follows :
	
	*Take a single input and split it in multiple valuse:
		
			user_input = input("Enter mulitple values saparted by space")
			values = user_input.split()	#---> Split the input strings into list of values. 
			
			for value in values:
			      print(value)		#---> now you have list of values, and can access individully.
			
			x, y, z = input("Enter three values: ").split(",")
			print("Total number of students: ", x)
			print("Number of boys is : ", y)
			print("Number of girls is : ", z)
			print()

			x = [int(x) for x in input("Enter multiple value: ").split(",")]
			print("Number of list is: ", x) 



Q10. What are keywords?
ans:-   'Keywords' in python refer as reserver and has specific meaning and used to define syntax stucture of language.
	keywords can't be use as identifiers like ('varibles names', 'function names' etc) in python code.it used to define control 
	structures, data types, and various other aspects of Python programming

